Alcoholism
==========

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

Jump to: navigation, search

[Page semi-protected]

[This is a good article. Click here for more information.]

Alcoholism

Classification and external resources

[]  
 "King Alcohol and his Prime Minister" c. 1820

ICD-10

F10.2

ICD-9

303

MedlinePlus

000944

MeSH

D000437

Alcoholism is a broad term for problems with alcohol, and is generally
used to mean compulsive and uncontrolled consumption of alcoholic
beverages, usually to the detriment of the drinker's health, personal
relationships, and social standing. It is medically considered a
disease, specifically an addictive illness, and in psychiatry several
other terms are used, specifically "alcohol abuse" and "alcohol
dependence," which have slightly different definitions.[1] In 1979 an
expert World Health Organization committee discouraged the use of
"alcoholism" in medicine, preferring the category of "alcohol dependence
syndrome".[2] In the 19th and early 20th centuries, alcohol dependence
in general was called dipsomania, but that term now has a much more
specific meaning.[3] People suffering from alcoholism are often called
"alcoholics". Many other terms, some of them insulting or informal, have
been used throughout history. The World Health Organization estimates
that there are 140 million people with alcoholism worldwide.[4][5]

The American Medical Association supports a dual classification of
alcoholism to include both physical and mental components.[6] The
biological mechanisms that cause alcoholism are not well understood.
Social environment, stress,[7] mental health, family history, age,
ethnic group, and gender all influence the risk for the condition.[8][9]
Significant alcohol intake produces changes in the brain's structure and
chemistry, though some alterations occur with minimal use of alcohol
over a short term period, such as tolerance and physical dependence.
These changes maintain the person with alcoholism's compulsive inability
to stop drinking and result in alcohol withdrawal syndrome if the person
stops.[10] Alcohol misuse has the potential to damage almost every organ
in the body, including the brain. The cumulative toxic effects of
chronic alcohol abuse can cause both medical and psychiatric
problems.[11]

Identifying alcoholism is difficult for the individual afflicted because
of the social stigma associated with the disease that causes people with
alcoholism to avoid diagnosis and treatment for fear of shame or social
consequences. The evaluation responses to a group of standardized
questioning is a common method for diagnosing alcoholism. These can be
used to identify harmful drinking patterns, including alcoholism.[12] In
general, problem drinking is considered alcoholism when the person
continues to drink despite experiencing social or health problems caused
by drinking.[13]

Treatment of alcoholism takes several steps. Because of the medical
problems that can be caused by withdrawal, alcohol detoxification is
carefully controlled and may involve medications such as benzodiazepines
such as diazepam (Valium).[14] People with alcoholism also sometimes
have other addictions, including addictions to benzodiazepines, which
may complicate this step.[15] After detoxification, other support such
as group therapy or self-help groups are used to help the person remain
sober.[16][17] Thombs (1999) states according to behavioural sciences
alcoholism is described as a “maladaptive behaviour”. He explains this
must not be confused with “misbehaviour”. Behavioural scientists explain
that addicts have a behaviour pattern that may lead to destructive
consequences for themselves, their families and society. This does not
label addicts as bad or irresponsible.[18] Compared with men, women are
more sensitive to alcohol's harmful physical, cerebral, and mental
effects.[19]

Contents
--------

-   1 Signs and symptoms
    -   1.1 Early signs
    -   1.2 Long-term misuse
        -   1.2.1 Physical
        -   1.2.2 Psychiatric
        -   1.2.3 Social effects

    -   1.3 Alcohol withdrawal

-   2 Causes
    -   2.1 Alcohol availability
    -   2.2 Gender difference
    -   2.3 Genetic variation

-   3 Pathophysiology
-   4 Diagnosis
    -   4.1 Terminology
    -   4.2 Social barriers
    -   4.3 Screening
    -   4.4 Genetic predisposition testing
    -   4.5 DSM diagnosis
    -   4.6 Urine and blood tests

-   5 Prevention
-   6 Management
    -   6.1 Detoxification
    -   6.2 Psychological
    -   6.3 Medications
    -   6.4 Dual addictions

-   7 Epidemiology
-   8 Prognosis
-   9 History
-   10 Society and culture
-   11 Research
-   12 See also
-   13 References
-   14 Further reading
-   15 External links

Signs and symptoms
------------------

Early signs

The risk of alcohol dependence begins at low levels of drinking and
increases directly with both the volume of alcohol consumed and a
pattern of drinking larger amounts on an occasion. Young adults are
particularly at risk.[20]

Long-term misuse

[]

[]

Some of the possible long-term effects of ethanol an individual may
develop. Additionally, in pregnant women, alcohol can cause fetal
alcohol syndrome.

Alcoholism is characterised by an increased tolerance of and physical
dependence on alcohol, affecting an individual's ability to control
alcohol consumption safely. These characteristics are believed to play a
role in impeding an alcoholic's ability to stop drinking.[10] Alcoholism
can have adverse effects on mental health, causing psychiatric disorders
and increasing the risk of suicide. The onset of depression is a common
symptom.[21][22]

The National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism defines binge
drinking as the amount of alcohol leading to a blood alcohol content
(BAC) of 0.08, which, for most adults, would be reached by consuming
five drinks for men or four for women over a 2-hour period.

According to the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism
[NIAAA], men may be at risk for alcohol-related problems if their
alcohol consumption exceeds 14 standard drinks per week or 4 drinks per
day, and women may be at risk if they have more than 7 standard drinks
per week or 3 drinks per day. A standard drink is defined as one
12-ounce bottle of beer, one 5-ounce glass of wine, or 1.5 ounces of
distilled spirits.)[23]

Physical

Long-term alcohol abuse can cause a number of physical symptoms,
including cirrhosis of the liver, pancreatitis, epilepsy,
polyneuropathy, alcoholic dementia, heart disease, nutritional
deficiencies, peptic ulcers[24] and sexual dysfunction, and can
eventually be fatal. Other physical effects include an increased risk of
developing cardiovascular disease, malabsorption, alcoholic liver
disease, and cancer. Damage to the central nervous system and peripheral
nervous system can occur from sustained alcohol consumption.[25][26] A
wide range of immunologic defects can result and there may be a
generalized skeletal fragility, in addition to a recognized tendency to
accidental injury, resulting a propensity to bone fractures.[27]

Women develop long-term complications of alcohol dependence more rapidly
than do men. Additionally, women have a higher mortality rate from
alcoholism than men.[28] Examples of long-term complications include
brain, heart, and liver damage[29] and an increased risk of breast
cancer. Additionally, heavy drinking over time has been found to have a
negative effect on reproductive functioning in women. This results in
reproductive dysfunction such as anovulation, decreased ovarian mass,
problems or irregularity of the menstrual cycle, and early
menopause.[28] Alcoholic ketoacidosis can occur in individuals who
chronically abuse alcohol and have a recent history of binge
drinking.[30][31]

Psychiatric

Long-term misuse of alcohol can cause a wide range of mental health
problems. Severe cognitive problems are common; approximately 10 percent
of all dementia cases are related to alcohol consumption, making it the
second leading cause of dementia.[32] Excessive alcohol use causes
damage to brain function, and psychological health can be increasingly
affected over time.[33]

Social skills are significantly impaired in people suffering from
alcoholism due to the neurotoxic effects of alcohol on the brain,
especially the prefrontal cortex area of the brain. The social skills
that are impaired by alcohol abuse include impairments in perceiving
facial emotions, prosody perception problems and theory of mind
deficits; the ability to understand humour is also impaired in alcohol
abusers.[34]

Psychiatric disorders are common in alcoholics, with as many as 25
percent suffering severe psychiatric disturbances. The most prevalent
psychiatric symptoms are anxiety and depression disorders. Psychiatric
symptoms usually initially worsen during alcohol withdrawal, but
typically improve or disappear with continued abstinence.[35] Psychosis,
confusion, and organic brain syndrome may be caused by alcohol misuse,
which can lead to a misdiagnosis such as schizophrenia.[36] Panic
disorder can develop or worsen as a direct result of long-term alcohol
misuse.[37][38]

The co-occurrence of major depressive disorder and alcoholism is well
documented.[39][40][41] Among those with comorbid occurrences, a
distinction is commonly made between depressive episodes that remit with
alcohol abstinence ("substance-induced"), and depressive episodes that
are primary and do not remit with abstinence ("independent"
episodes).[42][43][44] Additional use of other drugs may increase the
risk of depression.[45]

Psychiatric disorders differ depending on gender. Women who have
alcohol-use disorders often have a co-occurring psychiatric diagnosis
such as major depression, anxiety, panic disorder, bulimia,
post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), or borderline personality
disorder. Men with alcohol-use disorders more often have a co-occurring
diagnosis of narcissistic or antisocial personality disorder, bipolar
disorder, schizophrenia, impulse disorders or attention
deficit/hyperactivity disorder.[46] Women with alcoholism are more
likely to have a history of physical or sexual assault, abuse and
domestic violence than those in the general population,[46] which can
lead to higher instances of psychiatric disorders and greater dependence
on alcohol.

Social effects

See also: Drug-related crime

The social problems arising from alcoholism are serious, caused by the
pathological changes in the brain and the intoxicating effects of
alcohol.[32][47] Alcohol abuse is associated with an increased risk of
committing criminal offences, including child abuse, domestic violence,
rape, burglary and assault.[48] Alcoholism is associated with loss of
employment,[49] which can lead to financial problems. Drinking at
inappropriate times, and behavior caused by reduced judgment, can lead
to legal consequences, such as criminal charges for drunk driving[50] or
public disorder, or civil penalties for tortious behavior, and may lead
to a criminal sentence.

An alcoholic's behavior and mental impairment, while drunk, can
profoundly affect those surrounding them and lead to isolation from
family and friends. This isolation can lead to marital conflict and
divorce, or contribute to domestic violence. Alcoholism can also lead to
child neglect, with subsequent lasting damage to the emotional
development of the alcoholic's children.[51] For this reason, children
of alcoholic parents can develop a number of emotional problems. For
example, they can become afraid of their parents, because of their
unstable mood behaviors. In addition, they can develop considerable
amount of shame over their inadequacy to liberate their parents from
alcoholism. As a result of this failure, they develop wretched
self-images, which can lead to depression.[52]

Alcohol withdrawal

Main article: Alcohol withdrawal syndrome

See also: Kindling (sedative-hypnotic withdrawal)

As with similar substances with a sedative-hypnotic mechanism, such as
barbiturates and benzodiazepines, withdrawal from alcohol dependence can
be fatal if it is not properly managed.[47][53] Alcohol's primary effect
is the increase in stimulation of the GABAA receptor, promoting central
nervous system depression. With repeated heavy consumption of alcohol,
these receptors are desensitized and reduced in number, resulting in
tolerance and physical dependence. When alcohol consumption is stopped
too abruptly, the person's nervous system suffers from uncontrolled
synapse firing. This can result in symptoms that include anxiety, life
threatening seizures, delirium tremens, hallucinations, shakes and
possible heart failure.[54][55] Other neurotransmitter systems are also
involved, especially dopamine, NMDA and glutamate.[10][56]

Severe acute withdrawal symptoms such as delerium tremens and seizures
rarely occur after 1 week post cessation of alcohol. The acute
withdrawal phase can be defined as lasting between one and three weeks.
In the period of 3 – 6 weeks following cessation increased anxiety,
depression as well as sleep disturbance is common;[57] fatigue and
tension can persist for up to 5 weeks as part of the post-acute
withdrawal syndrome; about a quarter of alcoholics experience anxiety
and depression for up to 2 years. These post-acute withdrawal symptoms
have also been demonstrated in animal models of alcohol dependence and
withdrawal.[58] A kindling effect also occurs in alcoholics whereby each
subsequent withdrawal syndrome is more severe than the previous
withdrawal episode; this is due to neuroadaptations which occur as a
result of periods of abstinence followed by re-exposure to alcohol.
Individuals who have had multiple withdrawal episodes are more likely to
develop seizures and experience more severe anxiety during withdrawal
from alcohol than alcohol dependent individuals without a history of
past alcohol withdrawal episodes. The kindling effect leads to
persistent functional changes in brain neural circuits as well as to
gene expression.[59] Kindling also results in psychological symptoms of
alcohol withdrawal becoming more intensified.[57]

Causes
------

A complex mixture of genetic and environmental factors influences the
risk of the development of alcoholism.[60] Genes that influence the
metabolism of alcohol also influence the risk of alcoholism, and may be
indicated by a family history of alcoholism.[61] One paper has found
that alcohol use at an early age may influence the expression of genes
which increase the risk of alcohol dependence.[62] Individuals who have
a genetic disposition to alcoholism are also more likely to begin
drinking at an earlier age than average.[63]

Also, a younger age of onset of drinking is associated with an increased
risk of the development of alcoholism,[63] and about 40 percent of
alcoholics will drink excessively by their late adolescence. It is not
entirely clear whether this association is causal, and some researchers
have been known to disagree with this view.[64] A high testosterone
concentration during pregnancy may be a risk factor for later
development of alcohol dependence.[65]

Severe childhood trauma is also associated with a general increase in
the risk of drug dependency.[60] Lack of peer and family support is
associated with an increased risk of alcoholism developing.[60] Genetics
and adolescence are associated with an increased sensitivity to the
neurotoxic effects of chronic alcohol abuse. Cortical degeneration due
to the neurotoxic effects increases impulsive behaviour, which may
contribute to the development, persistence and severity of alcohol use
disorders. There is evidence that with abstinence, there is a reversal
of at least some of the alcohol induced central nervous system
damage.[66]

Alcohol availability

Alcohol is the most available and widely abused substance; Beer alone is
the world's most widely consumed[67] alcoholic beverage; it is the
third-most popular drink overall, after water and tea.[68] It is thought
by some to be the oldest fermented beverage.[69][70][71][72]

Gender difference

Based on combined data from SAMHSA's 2004-2005 National Surveys on Drug
Use & Health, the rate of past year alcohol dependence or abuse among
persons aged 12 or older varied by level of alcohol use: 44.7% of past
month heavy drinkers, 18.5% binge drinkers, 3.8% past month non-binge
drinkers, and 1.3% of those who did not drink alcohol in the past month
met the criteria for alcohol dependence or abuse in the past year. Males
had higher rates than females for all measures of drinking in the past
month: any alcohol use (57.5% vs. 45%), binge drinking (30.8% vs.
15.1%), and heavy alcohol use (10.5% vs. 3.3%), and males were twice as
likely as females to have met the criteria for alcohol dependence or
abuse in the past year (10.5% vs. 5.1%).[73]

Genetic variation

See also: Human genetic variation

Genetic differences exist between different racial groups which affect
the risk of developing alcohol dependence. For example, there are
differences between African, East Asian and Indo-racial groups in how
they metabolize alcohol. These genetic factors are believed to, in part,
explain the differing rates of alcohol dependence among racial
groups.[74][75] The alcohol dehydrogenase allele ADH1 B*3 causes a more
rapid metabolism of alcohol. The allele ADH1 B*3 is only found in those
of African descent and certain Native American tribes. African Americans
and Native Americans with this allele have a reduced risk of developing
alcoholism.[76] Native Americans however, have a significantly higher
rate of alcoholism than average; it is unclear why this is the case.[77]
Other risk factors such as cultural environmental effects e.g. trauma
have been proposed to explain the higher rates of alcoholism among
Native Americans compared to alcoholism levels in caucasians.[78][79]

Pathophysiology
---------------

[]

[]

"The Drunkard’s Progress", 1846

Alcohol's primary effect is the increase in stimulation of the GABAA
receptor, promoting central nervous system depression. With repeated
heavy consumption of alcohol, these receptors are desensitized and
reduced in number, resulting in tolerance and physical dependence.[54]
The amount of alcohol that can be biologically processed and its effects
differ between sexes. Equal dosages of alcohol consumed by men and women
generally result in women having higher blood alcohol concentrations
(BACs).[46] This can be attributed to many reasons, the main being that
women have less body water than men do.[citation needed] A given amount
of alcohol, therefore becomes more highly concentrated in a woman's
body. A given amount of alcohol causes greater intoxication for women
due to different hormone release compared to men.[29]

Diagnosis
---------

See also: Addiction medicine

Terminology

Misuse, problem use, abuse, and heavy use refer to improper use of
alcohol which may cause physical, social, or moral harm to the
drinker.[80] Moderate use is defined by The Dietary Guidelines for
Americans as no more than two alcoholic beverages a day for men and no
more than one alcoholic beverage a day for women.[81] Some drinkers may
drink more than 600 ml of alcohol per day during a heavy drinking
period.[82]

The term "alcoholism" is commonly used, but poorly defined. The WHO
calls alcoholism "a term of long-standing use and variable meaning", and
use of the term was disfavored by a 1979 WHO Expert Committee. The Big
Book (from Alcoholics Anonymous) states that once a person is an
alcoholic, they are always an alcoholic, but does not define what is
meant by the term "alcoholic" in this context. In 1960, Bill W.,
co-founder of Alcoholics Anonymous (AA), said:

We have never called alcoholism a disease because, technically speaking,
it is not a disease entity. For example, there is no such thing as heart
disease. Instead there are many separate heart ailments, or combinations
of them. It is something like that with alcoholism. Therefore we did not
wish to get in wrong with the medical profession by pronouncing
alcoholism a disease entity. Therefore we always called it an illness,
or a malady—a far safer term for us to use.[83]

In professional and research contexts, the term "alcoholism" sometimes
encompasses both alcohol abuse and alcohol dependence,[84] and sometimes
is considered equivalent to alcohol dependence. Talbot (1989) observes
that alcoholism in the classical disease model follows a progressive
course: if a person continues to drink, their condition will worsen.
This will lead to harmful consequences in their life, physically,
mentally, emotionally and socially.[85]

Johnson (1980) explores the emotional progression of the addict’s
response to alcohol. He looks at this in four phases. The first two are
considered “normal” drinking and the last two are viewed as "typical"
alcoholic drinking.[86][87] Johnson's four phases consist of:

1.  Learning the mood swing. A person is introduced to alcohol (in some
    cultures this can happen at a relatively young age), and the person
    enjoys the happy feeling it produces. At this stage there is no
    emotional cost.
2.  Seeking the mood swing. A person will drink to regain that feeling
    of euphoria experienced in phase 1; the drinking will increase as
    more intoxication is required to achieve the same effect. Again at
    this stage, there are no significant consequences.
3.  At the third stage there are physical and social consequences, i.e.,
    hangovers, family problems, work problems, etc. A person will
    continue to drink excessively, disregarding the problems.
4.  The fourth stage can be detrimental, as Johnson cites it as a risk
    for premature death. As a person now drinks to feel normal, they
    block out the feelings of overwhelming guilt, remorse, anxiety, and
    shame they experience when sober.[88]

Other theorists such as Milam & Ketcham (1983) focus on the physical
deterioration of alcohol. They describe the process in three stages:

1.  Adaptive stage - The person will not experience any negative
    symptoms, and believe they have capacity for alcohol. Physiological
    changes are happening with the increase in tolerance, but this will
    not be noticeable to the drinker or others.
2.  Dependent stage - At this stage, symptoms build gradually. Hangover
    symptoms may be confused with withdrawal symptoms. Many addicts will
    maintain their drinking to avoid withdrawal sickness, drinking small
    amounts frequently. They will try and hide their problem from
    others, and will avoid gross intoxication.
3.  Deterioration stage - Various organs are damaged due to long-term
    drinking. Medical treatment will be required; otherwise the
    pathological changes will cause death.

In psychology and psychiatry, the DSM is the most common global
standard, while in medicine, the standard is ICD. The terms they
recommend are similar but not identical.

Organization

Preferred term(s)

Definition

APA's DSM-IV

"alcohol abuse" and "alcohol dependence"

-   alcohol abuse = repeated use despite recurrent adverse
    consequences.[89]
-   alcohol dependence = alcohol abuse combined with tolerance,
    withdrawal, and an uncontrollable drive to drink.[89]

The term "alcoholism" was split into "alcohol abuse" and "alcohol
dependence" in 1980's DSM-III, and in 1987's DSM-III-R behavioral
symptoms were moved from "abuse" to "dependence".[1] It has been
suggested that DSM-V merge alcohol abuse and alcohol dependence into a
single new entry,[90] named "alcohol-use disorder".[91]

WHO's ICD-10

"alcohol harmful use" and "alcohol dependence syndrome"

Definitions are similar to that of the DSM-IV. The World Health
Organisation uses the term "alcohol dependence syndrome" rather than
alcoholism.[2] The concept of "harmful use" (as opposed to "abuse") was
introduced in 1992's ICD-10 to minimize underreporting of damage in the
absence of dependence.[1] The term "alcoholism" was removed from ICD
between ICD-8/ICDA-8 and ICD-9.[92]

Despite the imprecision inherent in the term, there have been attempts
to define how the word "alcoholism" should be interpreted when
encountered. In 1992, it was defined by the NCADD and ASAM as "a
primary, chronic disease characterized by impaired control over
drinking, preoccupation with the drug alcohol, use of alcohol despite
adverse consequences, and distortions in thinking."[93] MeSH has had an
entry for "alcoholism" since 1999, and references the 1992
definition.[94]

AA describes alcoholism as an illness that involves a physical
allergy[95]:28 (where "allergy" has a different meaning than that used
in modern medicine.[96]) and a mental obsession.[95]:23[97] The doctor
and addiction specialist Dr. William D. Silkworth M.D. writes on behalf
of AA that "Alcoholics suffer from a "(physical) craving beyond mental
control".[95]:XXVI

A 1960 study by E. Morton Jellinek is considered the foundation of the
modern disease theory of alcoholism.[98] Jellinek's definition
restricted the use of the word "alcoholism" to those showing a
particular natural history. The modern medical definition of alcoholism
has been revised numerous times since then. The American Medical
Association currently uses the word alcoholism to refer to a particular
chronic primary disease.[99]

Social barriers

Attitudes and social stereotypes can create barriers to the detection
and treatment of alcohol abuse. This is more of a barrier for women than
men. Fear of stigmatization may lead women to deny that they are
suffering from a medical condition, to hide their drinking, and to drink
alone. This pattern, in turn, leads family, physicians, and others to be
less likely to suspect that a woman they know is an alcoholic.[28] In
contrast, reduced fear of stigma may lead men to admit that they are
suffering from a medical condition, to display their drinking publicly,
and to drink in groups. This pattern, in turn, leads family, physicians,
and others to be more likely to suspect that a man they know is an
alcoholic.[46]

Screening

Several tools may be used to detect a loss of control of alcohol use.
These tools are mostly self-reports in questionnaire form. Another
common theme is a score or tally that sums up the general severity of
alcohol use.[12]

The CAGE questionnaire, named for its four questions, is one such
example that may be used to screen patients quickly in a doctor's
office.

  Two "yes" responses indicate that the respondent should be
  investigated further. The questionnaire asks the following questions:

  1.  Have you ever felt you needed to Cut down on your drinking?
  2.  Have people Annoyed you by criticizing your drinking?
  3.  Have you ever felt Guilty about drinking?
  4.  Have you ever felt you needed a drink first thing in the morning
      (Eye-opener) to steady your nerves or to get rid of a
      hangover?[100][101]

The CAGE questionnaire has demonstrated a high effectiveness in
detecting alcohol-related problems; however, it has limitations in
people with less severe alcohol-related problems, white women and
college students.[102]

Other tests are sometimes used for the detection of alcohol dependence,
such as the Alcohol Dependence Data Questionnaire, which is a more
sensitive diagnostic test than the CAGE questionnaire. It helps
distinguish a diagnosis of alcohol dependence from one of heavy alcohol
use.[103] The Michigan Alcohol Screening Test (MAST) is a screening tool
for alcoholism widely used by courts to determine the appropriate
sentencing for people convicted of alcohol-related offenses,[104]
driving under the influence being the most common. The Alcohol Use
Disorders Identification Test (AUDIT), a screening questionnaire
developed by the World Health Organization, is unique in that it has
been validated in six countries and is used internationally. Like the
CAGE questionnaire, it uses a simple set of questions – a high score
earning a deeper investigation.[105] The Paddington Alcohol Test (PAT)
was designed to screen for alcohol-related problems amongst those
attending Accident and Emergency departments. It concords well with the
AUDIT questionnaire but is administered in a fifth of the time.[106]

Genetic predisposition testing

Psychiatric geneticists John I. Nurnberger, Jr., and Laura Jean Bierut
suggest that alcoholism does not have a single cause—including
genetic—but that genes do play an important role "by affecting processes
in the body and brain that interact with one another and with an
individual's life experiences to produce protection or susceptibility".
They also report that fewer than a dozen alcoholism-related genes have
been identified, but that more likely await discovery.[107]

At least one genetic test exists for an allele that is correlated to
alcoholism and opiate addiction.[108] Human dopamine receptor genes have
a detectable variation referred to as the DRD2 TaqI polymorphism. Those
who possess the A1 allele (variation) of this polymorphism have a small
but significant tendency towards addiction to opiates and
endorphin-releasing drugs like alcohol.[109] Although this allele is
slightly more common in alcoholics and opiate addicts, it is not by
itself an adequate predictor of alcoholism, and some researchers argue
that evidence for DRD2 is contradictory.[107]

DSM diagnosis

The DSM-IV diagnosis of alcohol dependence represents one approach to
the definition of alcoholism. In part this is to assist in the
development of research protocols in which findings can be compared to
one another. According to the DSM-IV, an alcohol dependence diagnosis
is:[13]

  ... maladaptive alcohol use with clinically significant impairment as
  manifested by at least three of the following within any one-year
  period: tolerance; withdrawal; taken in greater amounts or over longer
  time course than intended; desire or unsuccessful attempts to cut down
  or control use; great deal of time spent obtaining, using, or
  recovering from use; social, occupational, or recreational activities
  given up or reduced; continued use despite knowledge of physical or
  psychological sequelae.

Numbers from the Harvard School of Public Health show that 31 percent of
college students show signs of alcohol abuse, while six percent are
dependent on alcohol. Under the DSM's new definition of Alcoholics, that
means about 37 percent of college students may meet the criteria.
Doctors are hoping that this new definition of the term will help catch
severe cases of alcoholism early, instead of when the problem is
full-blown.[110]

Urine and blood tests

There are reliable tests for the actual use of alcohol, one common test
being that of blood alcohol content (BAC).[111] These tests do not
differentiate alcoholics from non-alcoholics; however, long-term heavy
drinking does have a few recognizable effects on the body,
including:[112]

-   Macrocytosis (enlarged MCV)
-   Elevated GGT
-   Moderate elevation of AST and ALT and an AST: ALT ratio of 2:1
-   High carbohydrate deficient transferrin (CDT)

However, none of these blood tests for biological markers is as
sensitive as screening questionnaires.

Prevention
----------

The World Health Organization, the European Union and other regional
bodies, national governments and parliaments have formed alcohol
policies in order to reduce the harm of alcoholism.[113][114] Targeting
adolescents and young adults is regarded as an important step to reduce
the harm of alcohol abuse. Increasing the age at which licit drugs of
abuse such as alcohol can be purchased, the banning or restricting
advertising of alcohol has been recommended as additional ways of
reducing the harm of alcohol dependence and abuse. Credible, evidence
based educational campaigns in the mass media about the consequences of
alcohol abuse have been recommended. Guidelines for parents to prevent
alcohol abuse amongst adolescents, and for helping young people with
mental health problems have also been suggested.[115]

Management
----------

Treatments are varied because there are multiple perspectives of
alcoholism. Those who approach alcoholism as a medical condition or
disease recommend differing treatments than, for instance, those who
approach the condition as one of social choice. Most treatments focus on
helping people discontinue their alcohol intake, followed up with life
training and/or social support in order to help them resist a return to
alcohol use. Since alcoholism involves multiple factors which encourage
a person to continue drinking, they must all be addressed in order to
successfully prevent a relapse. An example of this kind of treatment is
detoxification followed by a combination of supportive therapy,
attendance at self-help groups, and ongoing development of coping
mechanisms. The treatment community for alcoholism typically supports an
abstinence-based zero tolerance approach; however, some prefer a
harm-reduction approach.[116]

Detoxification

Main article: Alcohol detoxification

Alcohol detoxification or 'detox' for alcoholics is an abrupt stop of
alcohol drinking coupled with the substitution of drugs, such as
benzodiazepines, that have similar effects to prevent alcohol
withdrawal. Individuals who are only at risk of mild to moderate
withdrawal symptoms can be detoxified as outpatients. Individuals at
risk of a severe withdrawal syndrome as well as those who have
significant or acute comorbid conditions are generally treated as
inpatients. Detoxification does not actually treat alcoholism, and it is
necessary to follow-up detoxification with an appropriate treatment
program for alcohol dependence or abuse in order to reduce the risk of
relapse.[14] Some symptoms of alcohol withdrawal such as depressed mood
and anxiety typically take weeks or months to abate while other symptoms
persist longer due to persisting neuroadaptations.[117] Alcoholism has
serious adverse effects on brain function; on average it takes one year
of abstinence to recover from the cognitive deficits incurred by chronic
alcohol abuse.[118]

Psychological

[]

[]

A regional service center for Alcoholics Anonymous.

Various forms of group therapy or psychotherapy can be used to deal with
underlying psychological issues that are related to alcohol addiction,
as well as provide relapse prevention skills. The mutual-help
group-counseling approach is one of the most common ways of helping
alcoholics maintain sobriety.[16][17] Alcoholics Anonymous was one of
the first organizations formed to provide mutual, nonprofessional
counseling, and it is still the largest. Others include LifeRing Secular
Recovery, SMART Recovery, Women For Sobriety, and Secular Organizations
for Sobriety.

Rationing and moderation programs such as Moderation Management and
DrinkWise do not mandate complete abstinence. While most alcoholics are
unable to limit their drinking in this way, some return to moderate
drinking. A 2002 US study by the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and
Alcoholism (NIAAA) showed that 17.7 percent of individuals diagnosed as
alcohol dependent more than one year prior returned to low-risk
drinking. This group, however, showed fewer initial symptoms of
dependency.[119] A follow-up study, using the same subjects that were
judged to be in remission in 2001–2002, examined the rates of return to
problem drinking in 2004–2005. The study found abstinence from alcohol
was the most stable form of remission for recovering alcoholics.[120] A
long-term (60 year) follow-up of two groups of alcoholic men concluded
that "return to controlled drinking rarely persisted for much more than
a decade without relapse or evolution into abstinence."[121]

Medications

A variety of medications may be prescribed as part of treatment for
alcoholism.

-   Acamprosate (Campral) stabilises the brain chemistry that is altered
    due to alcohol dependence via antagonising the actions of glutamate,
    a neurotransmitter which is hyperactive in the post-withdrawal
    phase.[122] By reducing excessive NMDA activity which occurs at the
    onset of alcohol withdrawal, acamprosate can reduce or prevent
    alcohol withdrawal related neurotoxicity.[123] A 2010 review of
    medical studies found that acamprosate reduces the incidence of
    relapse amongst alcohol dependent persons.[124]

-   Baclofen is an agonist for the GABAB receptors[125][126] which
    suppresses the motivation to consume cocaine, heroin, alcohol,
    nicotine and d-amphetamine[127] by inhibiting both withdrawal
    symptoms and cravings.[128] The use of baclofen for the treatment of
    alcoholism came to widespread public attention as a result of the
    publication of The End of My Addiction by Dr. Olivier Amesen in
    2008,[129] later re-released as Heal Thyself. Currently, clinical
    trials of baclofen are underway in several countries in Europe and
    the United States with a view to having baclofen licenced for the
    treatment of alcoholism.[130][131]

-   Benzodiazepines, while useful in the management of acute alcohol
    withdrawal, if used long-term can cause a worse outcome in
    alcoholism. Alcoholics on chronic benzodiazepines have a lower rate
    of achieving abstinence from alcohol than those not taking
    benzodiazepines. This class of drugs is commonly prescribed to
    alcoholics for insomnia or anxiety management.[132] Initiating
    prescriptions of benzodiazepines or sedative-hypnotics in
    individuals in recovery has a high rate of relapse with one author
    reporting more than a quarter of people relapsed after being
    prescribed sedative-hypnotics. Those who are long-term users of
    benzodiazepines should not be withdrawn rapidly, as severe anxiety
    and panic may develop, which are known risk factors for relapse into
    alcohol abuse. Taper regimes of 6–12 months have been found to be
    the most successful, with reduced intensity of withdrawal.[133][134]

-   Calcium carbimide (Temposil) works in the same way as disulfiram; it
    has an advantage in that the occasional adverse effects of
    disulfiram, hepatotoxicity and drowsiness, do not occur with calcium
    carbimide.[135][136]

-   Disulfiram (Antabuse) prevents the elimination of acetaldehyde, a
    chemical the body produces when breaking down ethanol. Acetaldehyde
    itself is the cause of many hangover symptoms from alcohol use. The
    overall effect is severe discomfort when alcohol is ingested: an
    extremely fast-acting and long-lasting uncomfortable hangover. This
    discourages an alcoholic from drinking in significant amounts while
    they take the medicine. A recent nine-year study found that
    incorporation of supervised disulfiram and the related compound
    carbimide into a comprehensive treatment program resulted in an
    abstinence rate of over 50 percent.[135]

-   Naltrexone is a competitive antagonist for opioid receptors,
    effectively blocking the effects of endorphins and opiates.
    Naltrexone is used to decrease cravings for alcohol and encourage
    abstinence. Alcohol causes the body to release endorphins, which in
    turn release dopamine and activate the reward pathways; hence when
    naltrexone is in the body there is a reduction in the pleasurable
    effects from consuming alcohol.[137] Naltrexone is also used in an
    alcoholism treatment method called the Sinclair Method, which treats
    patients through a combination of Naltrexone and continued
    drinking.[138]

-   Ondansetron, a 5HT3 antagonist, is effective in the treatment of
    alcoholism; the combination of ondansetron and naltrexone is
    superior than either treatment alone.[139]

Dual addictions

Alcoholics may also require treatment for other psychotropic drug
addictions. The most common dual addiction in alcohol dependence is
benzodiazepine dependence, with studies showing 10–20 percent of
alcohol-dependent individuals had problems of dependence and/or misuse
problems of benzodiazepines. Benzodiazepines increase cravings for
alcohol and the volume of alcohol consumed by problem drinkers.[140]
Benzodiazepine dependency requires careful reduction in dosage to avoid
benzodiazepine withdrawal syndrome and other health consequences.

Dependence on other sedative hypnotics such as zolpidem and zopiclone as
well as opiates and illegal drugs is common in alcoholics.

Alcohol itself is a sedative-hypnotic and is cross-tolerant with other
sedative-hypnotics such as barbiturates, benzodiazepines and
nonbenzodiazepines. Dependence upon and withdrawal from sedative
hypnotics can be medically severe and, as with alcohol withdrawal, there
is a risk of psychosis or seizures if not managed properly.[15]

Epidemiology
------------

[]

[]

Disability-adjusted life year for alcohol use disorders per 100,000
inhabitants in 2004.

no data

<50

50-170

170-290

290-410

410-530

530-650

650-770

770-890

890-1010

1010-1130

1130-1250

>1250

[]

[]

Total recorded yearly alcohol per capita consumption (15+), in litres of
pure alcohol[141]

Substance use disorders are a major public health problem facing many
countries. "The most common substance of abuse/dependence in patients
presenting for treatment is alcohol."[116] In the United Kingdom, the
number of 'dependent drinkers' was calculated as over 2.8 million in
2001.[142] About 12% of American adults have had an alcohol dependence
problem at some time in their life.[143] The World Health Organization
estimates that about 140 million people throughout the world suffer from
alcohol dependence.[4][5] In the United States and Western Europe, 10 to
20 percent of men and 5 to 10 percent of women at some point in their
lives will meet criteria for alcoholism.[144]

Within the medical and scientific communities, there is broad consensus
regarding alcoholism as a disease state. For example, the American
Medical Association considers alcohol a drug and states that "drug
addiction is a chronic, relapsing brain disease characterized by
compulsive drug seeking and use despite often devastating consequences.
It results from a complex interplay of biological vulnerability,
environmental exposure, and developmental factors (e.g., stage of brain
maturity)."[99]

Alcoholism has a higher prevalence among men, though in recent decades,
the proportion of female alcoholics has increased.[29] Current evidence
indicates that in both men and women, alcoholism is 50–60 percent
genetically determined, leaving 40–50 percent for environmental
influences.[145] Most alcoholics develop alcoholism during adolescence
or young adulthood.[60]

Prognosis
---------

A 2002 study by the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism
surveyed a group of 4,422 adults meeting the criteria for alcohol
dependence and found that after one year, some met the authors' criteria
for low-risk drinking, even though only 25.5 percent of the group
received any treatment, with the breakdown as follows: 25 percent were
found to be still dependent, 27.3 percent were in partial remission
(some symptoms persist), 11.8 percent asymptomatic drinkers (consumption
increases chances of relapse) and 35.9 percent were fully recovered —
made up of 17.7 percent low-risk drinkers plus 18.2 percent
abstainers.[146]

In contrast, however, the results of a long-term (60-year) follow-up of
two groups of alcoholic men by George Vaillant at Harvard Medical School
indicated that "return to controlled drinking rarely persisted for much
more than a decade without relapse or evolution into abstinence."[147]
Vaillant also noted that "return-to-controlled drinking, as reported in
short-term studies, is often a mirage."

The most common cause of death in alcoholics is from cardiovascular
complications.[148] There is a high rate of suicide in chronic
alcoholics, which increases the longer a person drinks. This is believed
to be due to alcohol causing physiological distortion of brain
chemistry, as well as social isolation. Suicide is also very common in
adolescent alcohol abusers, with 25 percent of suicides in adolescents
being related to alcohol abuse.[149] Approximately 18 percent of
alcoholics commit suicide,[22] and research has found that over 50
percent of all suicides are associated with alcohol or drug dependence.
The figure is higher for adolescents, with alcohol or drug misuse
playing a role in up to 70 percent of suicides.[150]

History
-------

[]

[]

1904 advertisement describing alcoholism as a disease.

Historically the name dipsomania was coined by German physician Dr. C.
W. Hufeland in 1819 before it was superseded by alcoholism.[151][152]
The term "alcoholism" was first used in 1849 by the Swedish physician
Magnus Huss to describe the systematic adverse effects of alcohol.[153]

Alcohol has a long history of use and misuse throughout recorded
history. Biblical, Egyptian and Babylonian sources record the history of
abuse and dependence on alcohol. In some ancient cultures alcohol was
worshiped and in others its abuse was condemned. Excessive alcohol
misuse and drunkenness were recognised as causing social problems even
thousands of years ago. However, the defining of habitual drunkenness as
it was then known as and its adverse consequences were not well
established medically until the 18th century. In 1647 a Greek monk named
Agapios was the first to document that chronic alcohol misuse was
associated with toxicity to the nervous system and body which resulted
in a range of medical disorders such as seizures, paralysis and internal
bleeding. In 1920 the effects of alcohol abuse and chronic drunkenness
led to the failed prohibition of alcohol being considered and eventually
enforced briefly in America. In 2005 the cost of alcohol dependence and
abuse was estimated to cost the US economy approximately 220 billion
dollars per year, more than cancer and obesity.[154]

Society and culture
-------------------

[]

[]

William Hogarth's Gin Lane, 1751

The various health problems associated with long-term alcohol
consumption are generally perceived as detrimental to society, for
example, money due to lost labor-hours, medical costs, and secondary
treatment costs. Alcohol use is a major contributing factor for head
injuries, motor vehicle accidents, violence, and assaults. Beyond money,
there are also significant social costs to both the alcoholic and their
family and friends.[47] For instance, alcohol consumption by a pregnant
woman can lead to fetal alcohol syndrome,[155] an incurable and damaging
condition.[156]

Estimates of the economic costs of alcohol abuse, collected by the World
Health Organization, vary from one to six percent of a country's
GDP.[157] One Australian estimate pegged alcohol's social costs at 24%
of all drug abuse costs; a similar Canadian study concluded alcohol's
share was 41%.[158] One study quantified the cost to the UK of all forms
of alcohol misuse in 2001 as £18.5–20 billion.[142][159] All economic
costs in the United States in 2006 have been estimated at $223.5
billion.[160]

Stereotypes of alcoholics are often found in fiction and popular
culture. The 'town drunk' is a stock character in Western popular
culture. Stereotypes of drunkenness may be based on racism or
xenophobia, as in the depiction of the Irish as heavy drinkers.[161]
Studies by social psychologists Stivers and Greeley attempt to document
the perceived prevalence of high alcohol consumption amongst the Irish
in America.[162]

Alcohol consumption is relatively similar between many European
cultures, the United States, and Australia. In Asian countries that have
a high gross domestic product, there is heightened drinking compared to
other Asian countries, but it is nowhere near as high as it is in other
countries like the United States. It is also inversely seen, with
countries that have very low gross domestic product showing high alcohol
consumption.[163]

In a study done on Korean immigrants in Canada, they reported alcohol
was even an integral part of their meal, and is the only time solo
drinking should occur. They also believe alcohol is necessary at any
social event as it helps conversations start.[164]

Caucasians have a much lower abstinence rate (11.8%) and much higher
tolerance to symptoms (3.4±2.45 drinks) of alcohol than Chinese (33.4%
and 2.2±1.78 drinks respectively). Also, the more acculturation there is
between cultures, the more influenced the culture is to adopt Caucasians
drinking practices.[165]

Peyote, a psychoactive agent, has even shown promise in treating
alcoholism. Alcohol had actually replaced peyote as Native American’s
psychoactive agent of choice in rituals when peyote was outlawed.[166]

Research
--------

Topiramate, a derivative of the naturally occurring sugar monosaccharide
D-fructose, has been found effective in helping alcoholics quit or cut
back on the amount they drink. Evidence suggests that topiramate
antagonizes excitatory glutamate receptors, inhibits dopamine release,
and enhances inhibitory gamma-aminobutyric acid function. A 2008 review
of the effectiveness of topiramate concluded that the results of
published trials are promising, however as of 2008, data was
insufficient to support using topiramate in conjunction with brief
weekly compliance counseling as a first-line agent for alcohol
dependence.[167] A 2010 review found that topiramate may be superior to
existing alcohol pharmacotherapeutic options. Topiramate effectively
reduces craving and alcohol withdrawal severity as well as improving
quality-of-life-ratings.[168]

See also
--------

-   Addictive personality
-   Alcoholism in family systems
-   Alcohol-related traffic crashes in the United States
-   Disease theory of alcoholism
-   Drug addiction
-   High-functioning alcoholic
-   List of countries by alcohol consumption

Questionnaires

-   Alcohol Use Disorders Identification Test
-   CAGE questionnaire
-   CRAFFT Screening Test
-   Paddington Alcohol Test
-   Severity of Alcohol Dependence Questionnaire

References
----------

1.  ^ a b c "Diagnostic Criteria for Alcohol Abuse and Dependence -
    Alcohol Alert No. 30-1995". Archived from the original on 27 March
    2010. Retrieved 17 April 2010.
2.  ^ a b WHO. "Lexicon of alcohol and drug terms published by the World
    Health Organization". World Health Organisation.
3.  ^ Tracy, Sarah J. (25 May 2005). Alcoholism in America: from
    reconstruction to prohibition. Baltimore: Johns Hopkins University
    Press. pp. 31–52. ISBN 978-0-8018-8119-0.
4.  ^ a b Dr Gro Harlem Brundtland (19 February 2001). "WHO European
    Ministerial Conference on Young People and Alcohol". World Health
    Organisation.
5.  ^ a b Ms Leanne Riley (31 January 2003). "WHO to meet beverage
    company representatives to discuss health-related alcohol issues".
    World Health Organisation.
6.  ^ "DEFINITIONS" (PDF). USA: American Medical Association.
7.  ^ Glavas MM, Weinberg J (2006). "Stress, Alcohol Consumption, and
    the Hypothalamic-Pituitary-Adrenal Axis". In Yehuda S, Mostofsky DI.
    Nutrients, Stress, and Medical Disorders. Totowa, NJ: Humana Press.
    pp. 165–183. ISBN 978-1-58829-432-6.
8.  ^ Agarwal-Kozlowski, K.; Agarwal, DP. (Apr 2000). "[Genetic
    predisposition for alcoholism]". Ther Umsch 57 (4): 179–84. PMID
    10804873.
9.  ^ Chen, CY.; Storr, CL.; Anthony, JC. (Mar 2009). "Early-onset drug
    use and risk for drug dependence problems". Addict Behav 34 (3):
    319–22. doi:10.1016/j.addbeh.2008.10.021. PMC 2677076. PMID
    19022584.
10. ^ a b c Hoffman, PL.; Tabakoff, B. (Jul 1996). "Alcohol dependence:
    a commentary on mechanisms". Alcohol Alcohol 31 (4): 333–40. PMID
    8879279.
11. ^ Caan, Woody; Belleroche, Jackie de, eds. (11 April 2002). Drink,
    Drugs and Dependence: From Science to Clinical Practice (1st ed.).
    Routledge. pp. 19–20. ISBN 978-0-415-27891-1.
12. ^ a b Kahan, M. (Apr 1996). "Identifying and managing problem
    drinkers". Can Fam Physician 42: 661–71. PMC 2146411. PMID 8653034.
13. ^ a b Diagnostic and statistical manual of mental disorders: DSM-IV.
    Washington, DC: American Psychiatric Association. 31 July 1994. ISBN
    978-0-89042-025-6.
14. ^ a b Blondell, RD. (Feb 2005). "Ambulatory detoxification of
    patients with alcohol dependence". Am Fam Physician 71 (3): 495–502.
    PMID 15712624.
15. ^ a b Johansson BA, Berglund M, Hanson M, Pöhlén C, Persson I
    (November 2003). "Dependence on legal [[psychotropic]] drugs among
    alcoholics" (PDF). Alcohol Alcohol. 38 (6): 613–8.
    doi:10.1093/alcalc/agg123. ISSN 0735-0414. PMID 14633651. Wikilink
    embedded in URL title (help)
16. ^ a b Morgan-Lopez, AA.; Fals-Stewart, W. (May 2006). "Analytic
    complexities associated with group therapy in substance abuse
    treatment research: problems, recommendations, and future
    directions". Exp Clin Psychopharmacol 14 (2): 265–73.
    doi:10.1037/1064-1297.14.2.265. PMID 16756430.
17. ^ a b Soyka, M.; Helten, C.; Scharfenberg, CO. (2001).
    "[Psychotherapy of alcohol addiction—principles and new findings of
    therapy research]". Wien Med Wochenschr 151 (15–17): 380–8;
    discussion 389. PMID 11603209.
18. ^ Thombs, Dennis L. Thombs (1999). Introduction To Addictive
    Behaviors 2ed. London: The Guildford Press. pp. 8–9.
19. ^ name="Walter H., Gutierrez K., Ramskogler K., Hertling I., Dvorak
    A., Lesch O.M., et al. 2003 253–268"
20. ^
    http://www.ias.org.uk/resources/papers/europe/phproject/bingedrinking-report.pdf
21. ^ Dunn, N; Cook (March 1999). "Psychiatric aspects of alcohol
    misuse". Hospital medicine (London, England : 1998) 60 (3): 169–72.
    ISSN 1462-3935. PMID 10476237.
22. ^ a b Wilson, Richard; Kolander, Cheryl A. (2003). Drug abuse
    prevention: a school and community partnership. Sudbury, Mass.:
    Jones and Bartlett. pp. 40–45. ISBN 978-0-7637-1461-1.
23. ^ http://pubs.niaaa.nih.gov/publications/aa68/aa68.htm
24. ^ American Medical Association (2003). Leiken, Jerrold B. MD,
    Lipsky, Martin S. MD, ed. Complete Medical Encyclopedia
    (Encyclopeia|format= requires |url= (help)) (First ed.). New York,
    NY: Random House Reference. p. 485. ISBN 0-8129-9100-1. |accessdate=
    requires |url= (help)
25. ^ Müller D, Koch RD, von Specht H, Völker W, Münch EM (March 1985).
    "[Neurophysiologic findings in chronic alcohol abuse]". Psychiatr
    Neurol Med Psychol (Leipz) (in German) 37 (3): 129–32. PMID 2988001.
26. ^ Testino G (2008). "Alcoholic diseases in hepato-gastroenterology:
    a point of view". Hepatogastroenterology 55 (82–83): 371–7. PMID
    18613369.
27. ^ 10th Special Report to the U.S. Congress on Alcohol and Health,
    2000, U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Public Health
    Service National Institutes of Health, National Institute on Alcohol
    Abuse and Alcoholism.
28. ^ a b c Blume Laura N., Nielson Nancy H., Riggs Joseph A., et all
    (1998). "Alcoholism and alcohol abuse among women: report of the
    council on scientific affairs". Journal of women's health 7 (7):
    861–870. doi:10.1089/jwh.1998.7.861.
29. ^ a b c Walter, H.; Gutierrez, K.; Ramskogler, K.; Hertling, I.;
    Dvorak, A.; Lesch, OM. (Nov 2003). "Gender-specific differences in
    alcoholism: implications for treatment". Archives of Women's Mental
    Health 6 (4): 253–8. doi:10.1007/s00737-003-0014-8. PMID 14628177.
30. ^ Mihai, B.; Lăcătuşu, C.; Graur, M. (April–June 2008). "[Alcoholic
    ketoacidosis]". Rev Med Chir Soc Med Nat Iasi 112 (2): 321–6. PMID
    19294998.
31. ^ Sibaï, K.; Eggimann, P. (Sep 2005). "[Alcoholic ketoacidosis: not
    rare cause of metabolic acidosis]". Rev Med Suisse 1 (32): 2106,
    2108–10, 2112–5. PMID 16238232.
32. ^ a b Professor Georgy Bakalkin (8 July 2008).
    "Alcoholism-associated molecular adaptations in brain neurocognitive
    circuits". eurekalert.org. Retrieved 11 January 2012.
33. ^ Oscar-Berman, Marlene; Marinkovic, Ksenija (2003). "Alcoholism and
    the brain: an overview". Alcohol Res Health 27 (2): 125–33. PMID
    15303622.
34. ^ Uekermann J, Daum I (May 2008). "Social cognition in alcoholism: a
    link to prefrontal cortex dysfunction?". Addiction 103 (5): 726–35.
    doi:10.1111/j.1360-0443.2008.02157.x. PMID 18412750.
35. ^ Wetterling T; Junghanns, K (September 2000). "Psychopathology of
    alcoholics during withdrawal and early abstinence". Eur Psychiatry
    15 (8): 483–8. doi:10.1016/S0924-9338(00)00519-8. ISSN 0924-9338.
    PMID 11175926.
36. ^ Schuckit MA (November 1983). "Alcoholism and other psychiatric
    disorders". Hosp Community Psychiatry 34 (11): 1022–7. ISSN
    0022-1597. PMID 6642446.
37. ^ Cowley DS (24 January 1992). "Alcohol abuse, substance abuse, and
    panic disorder". Am J Med 92 (1A): 41S–48S.
    doi:10.1016/0002-9343(92)90136-Y. ISSN 0002-9343. PMID 1346485.
38. ^ Cosci F; Schruers, KR; Abrams, K; Griez, EJ (June 2007). "Alcohol
    use disorders and panic disorder: a review of the evidence of a
    direct relationship". J Clin Psychiatry 68 (6): 874–80.
    doi:10.4088/JCP.v68n0608. ISSN 0160-6689. PMID 17592911.
39. ^ Grant BF, Harford TC (October 1995). "Comorbidity between DSM-IV
    alcohol use disorders and major depression: results of a national
    survey". Drug Alcohol Depend 39 (3): 197–206.
    doi:10.1016/0376-8716(95)01160-4. ISSN 0376-8716. PMID 8556968.
40. ^ Kandel DB, Huang FY, Davies M (October 2001). "Comorbidity between
    patterns of substance use dependence and psychiatric syndromes".
    Drug Alcohol Depend 64 (2): 233–41.
    doi:10.1016/S0376-8716(01)00126-0. ISSN 0376-8716. PMID 11543993.
41. ^ Cornelius JR, Bukstein O, Salloum I, Clark D (2003). "Alcohol and
    psychiatric comorbidity". Recent Dev Alcohol. Recent Developments in
    Alcoholism 16: 361–74. doi:10.1007/0-306-47939-7_24. ISBN
    0-306-47258-9. ISSN 0738-422X. PMID 12638646.
42. ^ Schuckit MA, Tipp JE, Bergman M, Reich W, Hesselbrock VM, Smith TL
    (July 1997). "Comparison of induced and independent major depressive
    disorders in 2,945 alcoholics". Am J Psychiatry 154 (7): 948–57.
    ISSN 0002-953X. PMID 9210745.
43. ^ Schuckit MA, Tipp JE, Bucholz KK (October 1997). "The life-time
    rates of three major mood disorders and four major anxiety disorders
    in alcoholics and controls". Addiction 92 (10): 1289–304.
    doi:10.1111/j.1360-0443.1997.tb02848.x. ISSN 0965-2140. PMID
    9489046.
44. ^ Schuckit MA, Smith TL, Danko GP (November 2007). "A comparison of
    factors associated with substance-induced versus independent
    depressions". J Stud Alcohol Drugs 68 (6): 805–12. ISSN 1937-1888.
    PMID 17960298.
45. ^ Schuckit M (June 1983). "Alcoholic patients with secondary
    depression". Am J Psychiatry 140 (6): 711–4. ISSN 0002-953X. PMID
    6846629.
46. ^ a b c d Karrol Brad R. (2002). "Women and alcohol use disorders: a
    review of important knowledge and its implications for social work
    practitioners". Journal of social work 2 (3): 337–356.
    doi:10.1177/146801730200200305.
47. ^ a b c Chris McCully., Chris (2004). Goodbye Mr. Wonderful.
    Alcohol, Addition and Early Recovery.. London: Jessica Kingsley
    Publishers. ISBN 978-1-84310-265-6. More than one of |last1= and
    |author= specified (help)
48. ^ Isralowitz, Richard (2004). Drug use: a reference handbook. Santa
    Barbara, Calif.: ABC-CLIO. pp. 122–123. ISBN 978-1-57607-708-5.
49. ^ Langdana, Farrokh K. (27 March 2009). Macroeconomic Policy:
    Demystifying Monetary and Fiscal Policy (2nd ed.). Springer. p. 81.
    ISBN 978-0-387-77665-1.
50. ^ Gifford, Maria (22 October 2009). Alcoholism (Biographies of
    Disease). Greenwood Press. pp. 89–91. ISBN 978-0-313-35908-8.
51. ^ Schadé, Johannes Petrus (October 2006). The Complete Encyclopedia
    of Medicine and Health. Foreign Media Books. pp. 132–133. ISBN
    978-1-60136-001-4.
52. ^ Gold, Mark. "Children of Alcoholics". Psych Central. Retrieved 27
    November 2011.
53. ^ Galanter, Marc; Kleber, Herbert D. (1 July 2008). The American
    Psychiatric Publishing Textbook of Substance Abuse Treatment (4th
    ed.). United States of America: American Psychiatric Publishing Inc.
    p. 58. ISBN 978-1-58562-276-4.
54. ^ a b Dart, Richard C. (1 December 2003). Medical Toxicology (3rd
    ed.). USA: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins. pp. 139–140. ISBN
    978-0-7817-2845-4.
55. ^ Idemudia SO, Bhadra S, Lal H (June 1989). "The
    pentylenetetrazol-like interoceptive stimulus produced by ethanol
    withdrawal is potentiated by bicuculline and picrotoxinin".
    Neuropsychopharmacology 2 (2): 115–22.
    doi:10.1016/0893-133X(89)90014-6. ISSN 0893-133X. PMID 2742726.
56. ^ Chastain, G (October 2006). "Alcohol, neurotransmitter systems,
    and behavior". The Journal of general psychology 133 (4): 329–35.
    doi:10.3200/GENP.133.4.329-335. ISSN 0022-1309. PMID 17128954.
57. ^ a b Heilig M, Egli M, Crabbe JC, Becker HC (April 2010). "Acute
    withdrawal, protracted abstinence and negative affect in alcoholism:
    are they linked?". Addict Biol 15 (2): 169–84.
    doi:10.1111/j.1369-1600.2009.00194.x. PMC 3268458. PMID 20148778.
58. ^ Johnson, Bankole A. (2011). Addiction medicine : science and
    practic. New York: Springer. pp. 301–303. ISBN 978-1-4419-0337-2.
59. ^ Breese, GR.; Sinha, R.; Heilig, M. (Feb 2011). "Chronic alcohol
    neuroadaptation and stress contribute to susceptibility for alcohol
    craving and relapse.". Pharmacol Ther 129 (2): 149–71.
    doi:10.1016/j.pharmthera.2010.09.007. PMC 3026093. PMID 20951730.
    More than one of |pmid= and |PMID= specified (help)
60. ^ a b c d Enoch, MA. (Dec 2006). "Genetic and environmental
    influences on the development of alcoholism: resilience vs. risk".
    Ann N Y Acad Sci 1094: 193–201. doi:10.1196/annals.1376.019. PMID
    17347351.
61. ^ Bierut, LJ.; Schuckit, MA.; Hesselbrock, V.; Reich, T. (2000).
    "Co-occurring risk factors for alcohol dependence and habitual
    smoking". Alcohol Res Health 24 (4): 233–41. PMID 15986718.
62. ^ Agrawal, Arpana; Sartor, Carolyn E.; Lynskey, Michael T.; Grant,
    Julia D.; Pergadia, Michele L.; Grucza, Richard; Bucholz, Kathleen
    K.; Nelson, Elliot C. et al. (2009). "Evidence for an Interaction
    Between Age at 1st Drink and Genetic Influences on DSM-IV Alcohol
    Dependence Symptoms". Alcoholism: Clinical and Experimental Research
    33 (12): 2047–56. doi:10.1111/j.1530-0277.2009.01044.x. PMC 2883563.
    PMID 19764935. |displayauthors= suggested (help)
63. ^ a b "Early Age At First Drink May Modify Tween/Teen Risk For
    Alcohol Dependence". Medical News Today. 21 September 2009.
64. ^ Schwandt, M.L.; S.G. Lindell, S. Chen, J.D. Higley, S.J. Suomi, M.
    Heilig, C.S. Barr (Feb 2010). "Alcohol Response and Consumption in
    Adolescent Rhesus Macaques: Life History and Genetic Influences".
    Alcohol 44 (1): 67–80. doi:10.1016/j.alcohol.2009.09.034. PMC
    2818103. PMID 20113875.
65. ^ J. Kornhuber, G. Erhard, B. Lenz, T. Kraus, W. Sperling, K.
    Bayerlein, T. Biermann, C. Stoessel (2011): Low digit ratio 2D:4D in
    alcohol dependent patients. PLoS ONE, Vol. 6, Nr. 4, e19332.
66. ^ Crews, FT.; Boettiger, CA. (Sep 2009). "Impulsivity, Frontal Lobes
    and Risk for Addiction". Pharmacol Biochem Behav 93 (3): 237–47.
    doi:10.1016/j.pbb.2009.04.018. PMC 2730661. PMID 19410598.
67. ^ "Volume of World Beer Production". European Beer Guide. Archived
    from the original on 28 October 2006. Retrieved 17 October 2006.
68. ^ Nelson, Max (2005). The Barbarian's Beverage: A History of Beer in
    Ancient Europe. Abingdon, Oxon: Routledge. p. 1. ISBN 0-415-31121-7.
    Retrieved 21 September 2010.
69. ^ Rudgley, Richard (1993). The Alchemy of Culture: Intoxicants in
    Society. London: British Museum Press. p. 411. ISBN
    978-0-7141-1736-2. Retrieved 13 January 2012.
70. ^ Arnold, John P (2005). Origin and History of Beer and Brewing:
    From Prehistoric Times to the Beginning of Brewing Science and
    Technology. Cleveland, Ohio: Reprint Edition by BeerBooks. p. 411.
    ISBN 0-9662084-1-2. Retrieved 13 January 2012.
71. ^ Joshua J. Mark (2011). Beer. Ancient History Encyclopedia.
72. ^ World's Best Beers: One Thousand. Google Books. 6 October 2009.
    ISBN 978-1-4027-6694-7. Retrieved 7 August 2010.
73. ^ “Gender differences in alcohol use and alcohol dependence or
    abuse: 2004 or 2005.” The NSDUH Report.Accessed June 22, 2012.
74. ^ Moore, S.; Montane-Jaime, LK.; Carr, LG.; Ehlers, CL. (2007).
    "Variations in alcohol-metabolizing enzymes in people of East Indian
    and African descent from Trinidad and Tobago". Alcohol Res Health 30
    (1): 28–30. PMID 17718398.
75. ^ Eng, MY.; Luczak, SE.; Wall, TL. (2007). "ALDH2, ADH1B, and ADH1C
    genotypes in Asians: a literature review". Alcohol Res Health 30
    (1): 22–7. PMID 17718397.
76. ^ Scott, DM.; Taylor, RE. (2007). "Health-related effects of genetic
    variations of alcohol-metabolizing enzymes in African Americans".
    Alcohol Res Health 30 (1): 18–21. PMID 17718396.
77. ^ Ehlers, CL. (2007). "Variations in ADH and ALDH in Southwest
    California Indians". Alcohol Res Health 30 (1): 14–7. PMID 17718395.
78. ^ Szlemko, WJ.; Wood, JW.; Thurman, PJ. (Oct 2006). "Native
    Americans and alcohol: past, present, and future". J Gen Psychol 133
    (4): 435–51. doi:10.3200/GENP.133.4.435-451. PMID 17128961.
79. ^ Spillane, NS.; Smith, GT. (May 2007). "A theory of
    reservation-dwelling American Indian alcohol use risk". Psychol Bull
    133 (3): 395–418. doi:10.1037/0033-2909.133.3.395. PMID 17469984.
80. ^ American Heritage Dictionaries (12 April 2006). The American
    Heritage dictionary of the English language (4 ed.). Boston:
    Houghton Mifflin. ISBN 978-0-618-70172-8. "To use wrongly or
    improperly; misuse: abuse alcohol"
81. ^ "Dietary Guidelines for Americans 2005". USA: health.gov. 2005.
    Dietary Guidelines
82. ^ See question 16 of the Severity of Alcohol Dependence
    Questionnaire.
83. ^ Thomas F. McGovern; William L. White (20 May 2003). Alcohol
    Problems in the United States: Twenty Years of Treatment
    Perspective. Routledge. pp. 7–. ISBN 978-0-7890-2049-9. Retrieved 17
    April 2010.
84. ^ "alcoholism" at Dorland's Medical Dictionary
85. ^ Thombs, Dennis L (1999). Introductive To Addictive Behaviors 2ed.
    London: The Guildford Press. p. 64.
86. ^ Thombs, Dennis L (1999). Introduction to Addictive Behaviours 2ed.
    London: The Guildford Press. p. 64.
87. ^ Thombs, Dennis (1999). Introduction to Addictive Behaviors.
    London: The Guildford Press. p. 64.
88. ^ Thombs, Dennis L (1999). Introduction to Addictive Behaviors 2ed.
    London: The Guildford Press. p. 65.
89. ^ a b VandenBos, Gary R. (15 July 2006). APA dictionary of
    psychology. Washington, DC: American Psychological Association. ISBN
    978-1-59147-380-0.
90. ^ Martin CS, Chung T, Langenbucher JW (August 2008). "How Should We
    Revise Diagnostic Criteria for Substance Use Disorders in the
    DSM—V?". J Abnorm Psychol 117 (3): 561–75.
    doi:10.1037/0021-843X.117.3.561. PMC 2701140. PMID 18729609.
91. ^ "Proposed Revision | APA DSM-5". Archived from the original on 25
    March 2010. Retrieved 17 April 2010.
92. ^ "A System to Convert ICD Diagnostic Codes for Alcohol Research".
    Retrieved 17 April 2010.
93. ^ Morse RM, Flavin DK (August 1992). "The definition of alcoholism.
    The Joint Committee of the National Council on Alcoholism and Drug
    Dependence and the American Society of Addiction Medicine to Study
    the Definition and Criteria for the Diagnosis of Alcoholism". JAMA:
    the Journal of the American Medical Association 268 (8): 1012–4.
    doi:10.1001/jama.1992.03490080086030. ISSN 0098-7484. PMID 1501306.
94. ^ Alcoholism at the US National Library of Medicine Medical Subject
    Headings (MeSH)
95. ^ a b c Anonymous; The first 100 members of AA (1939, 2001).
    Alcoholics Anonymous: the story of how many thousands of men and
    women have recovered from alcoholism. New York City: Alcoholics
    Anonymous World Services. xxxii, 575 p. ISBN 1-893007-16-2.
96. ^ Kay AB (2000). "Overview of 'allergy and allergic diseases: with a
    view to the future'". Br. Med. Bull. 56 (4): 843–64.
    doi:10.1258/0007142001903481. ISSN 0007-1420. PMID 11359624.
97. ^ "The Big Book Self Test:". intoaction.us. Retrieved 19 February
    2008.
98. ^ "OCTOBER 22 DEATHS". todayinsci.com. Archived from the original on
    7 February 2008. Retrieved 18 February 2008.
99. ^ a b Nora Volkow. "Science of Addiction" (PDF). American Medical
    Association.
100. ^ Ewing JA (October 1984). "Detecting alcoholism. The CAGE
    questionnaire". JAMA: the Journal of the American Medical
    Association 252 (14): 1905–7. doi:10.1001/jama.252.14.1905. ISSN
    0098-7484. PMID 6471323.
101. ^ "CAGE questionnaire – screen for alcohol misuse" (PDF).
102. ^ Dhalla, S.; Kopec, JA. (2007). "The CAGE questionnaire for
    alcohol misuse: a review of reliability and validity studies". Clin
    Invest Med 30 (1): 33–41. PMID 17716538.
103. ^ Raistrick, D.; Dunbar, G. Davidson, R. (1983). "Alcohol
    Dependence Data Questionnaire (SADD)". European Monitoring Centre
    for Drugs and Drug Addiction.
104. ^ "Michigan Alcohol Screening Test". The National Council on
    Alcoholism and Drug Dependence.
105. ^ Thomas F. Babor; John C. Higgins-Biddle, John B. Saunders,
    Maristela G. Monteiro. "The Alcohol Use Disorders Identification
    Test, Guidelines for Use in Primary Care" (PDF). World Health
    Organization.
106. ^ Smith, SG; Touquet, R; Wright, S; Das Gupta, N (September 1996).
    "Detection of alcohol misusing patients in accident and emergency
    departments: the Paddington alcohol test (PAT)". Journal of Accident
    and Emergency Medicine (British Association for Accident and
    Emergency Medicine) 13 (5): 308–312. doi:10.1136/emj.13.5.308. ISSN
    1351-0622. PMC 1342761. PMID 8894853.
107. ^ a b Nurnberger, Jr., John I., and Bierut, Laura Jean. "Seeking
    the Connections: Alcoholism and our Genes." Scientific American, Apr
    2007, Vol. 296, Issue 4.
108. ^ New York Daily News (William Sherman) Test targets addiction gene
    11 February 2006
109. ^ Berggren U, Fahlke C, Aronsson E (September 2006). "The taqI DRD2
    A1 allele is associated with alcohol-dependence although its effect
    size is small" (Free full text). Alcohol and alcoholism (Oxford,
    Oxfordshire) 41 (5): 479–85. doi:10.1093/alcalc/agl043. ISSN
    0735-0414. PMID 16751215.
110. ^
    http://dailyemerald.com/2012/05/22/redefining-alcoholic-what-this-means-for-students/
111. ^ Jones, AW. (2006). "Urine as a biological specimen for forensic
    analysis of alcohol and variability in the urine-to-blood
    relationship". Toxicol Rev 25 (1): 15–35.
    doi:10.2165/00139709-200625010-00002. PMID 16856767.
112. ^ Das, SK.; Dhanya, L.; Vasudevan, DM. (2008). "Biomarkers of
    alcoholism: an updated review". Scand J Clin Lab Invest 68 (2):
    81–92. doi:10.1080/00365510701532662. PMID 17852805.
113. ^ World Health Organisation (2010). "Alcohol".
114. ^ "Alcohol policy in the WHO European Region: current status and
    the way forward" (PDF). World Health Organisation. 12 September
    2005.
115. ^ Crews, F.; He, J.; Hodge, C. (Feb 2007). "Adolescent cortical
    development: a critical period of vulnerability for addiction".
    Pharmacol Biochem Behav 86 (2): 189–99.
    doi:10.1016/j.pbb.2006.12.001. PMID 17222895.
116. ^ a b Gabbard, Glen O. (2001). Treatments of psychiatric disorders
    (3 ed.). Washington, DC: American Psychiatric Press. ISBN
    978-0-88048-910-2.
117. ^ Heilig, M.; Egli, M.; Crabbe, JC.; Becker, HC. (Apr 2010). "Acute
    withdrawal, protracted abstinence and negative affect in alcoholism:
    are they linked?". Addict Biol 15 (2): 169–84.
    doi:10.1111/j.1369-1600.2009.00194.x. PMID 20148778.
118. ^ Stavro, K.; Pelletier, J.; Potvin, S. (Jan 2012). "Widespread and
    sustained cognitive deficits in alcoholism: a meta-analysis.".
    Addict Biol. doi:10.1111/j.1369-1600.2011.00418.x. PMID 22264351.
119. ^ Dawson, Deborah A.; Grant, Bridget F.; Stinson, Frederick S.;
    Chou, Patricia S.; Huang, Boji; Ruan, W. June (2005). "Recovery from
    DSM-IV alcohol dependence: United States, 2001–2002". Addiction 100
    (3): 281–92. doi:10.1111/j.1360-0443.2004.00964.x. PMID 15733237.
120. ^ Dawson, Deborah A.; Goldstein, Risë B.; Grant, Bridget F. (2007).
    "Rates and correlates of relapse among individuals in remission from
    DSM-IV alcohol dependence: a 3-year follow-up". Alcoholism: Clinical
    and Experimental Research 31 (12): 2036–45.
    doi:10.1111/j.1530-0277.2007.00536.x. PMID 18034696.
121. ^ Vaillant, GE (2003). "A 60-year follow-up of alcoholic men".
    Addiction (Abingdon, England) 98 (8): 1043–51.
    doi:10.1046/j.1360-0443.2003.00422.x. PMID 12873238.
122. ^ Mason, BJ.; Heyser, CJ. (Jan 2010). "The neurobiology, clinical
    efficacy and safety of acamprosate in the treatment of alcohol
    dependence". Expert Opin Drug Saf 9 (1): 177–88.
    doi:10.1517/14740330903512943. PMID 20021295.
123. ^ Mason BJ, Heyser CJ (March 2010). "Acamprosate: A prototypic
    neuromodulator in the treatment of alcohol dependence". CNS Neurol
    Disord Drug Targets 9 (1): 23–32. PMC 2853976. PMID 20201812.
124. ^ Rösner S, Hackl-Herrwerth A, Leucht S, Lehert P, Vecchi S, Soyka
    M (2010). "Acamprosate for alcohol dependence". In Rösner, Susanne.
    Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews (9): CD004332.
    doi:10.1002/14651858.CD004332.pub2. PMID 20824837.
125. ^ Mezler M.; Müller T. (2001). "Cloning and functional expression
    of GABA(B) receptors from Drosophila". European Journal of
    Neuroscience 13 (3): 477–486. doi:10.1046/j.1460-9568.2001.01410.x..
    PMID 11168554. Unknown parameter |author 3= ignored (help)
126. ^ Dxitoyeva S.; Dimitrijevic N.; Manev H. (2001).
    "Gamma-aminobutyric acid B receptor 1 mediates behavior-impairing
    actions of alcohol in Drosophila: adult RNA interference and
    pharmacological evidence". Proceedings of the National Academy of
    Sciences, USA 100 (9): 5485–5490. doi:10.1073/pnas.0830111100.PMC
    154371.. PMID 12692303.
127. ^ Ameisen (2005). "Naltrexone for alcohol dependancy". Journal of
    the American Medical Association.
128. ^ Addolorato, G.; Leggio, L.; Ferrulli, A.; Cardone, S.; Vonghia,
    L.; Mirijello, A.; Abenavoli, L.; D'Angelo, C. et al. (2007).
    "Effectiveness and safety of baclofen for maintenance of alcohol
    abstinence in alcohol-dependent patients with liver cirrhosis:
    randomised, double-blind controlled study". Lancet 370 (9603):
    1915–1922. doi:10.1016/S0140-6736(07)61814-5.. PMID 18068515.
129. ^ Schofield, Hugh (December 6, 2008). "France abuzz over alcoholic
    'cure'". BBC News. Retrieved March 2, 2013.
130. ^ “Abstinence and ‘Low-Risk’ Consumption 1 Year after the
    Initiation of High-Dose Baclofen: A Retrospective Study among
    ‘High-Risk’ Drinkers.” Laurent Rigal, Constance Alexandre-Dubroeucq,
    Renaud de Beaurepaire, Claire Le Jeunne and Philippe Jaury, Alcohol
    and Alcoholism, 19 March 2012. 11. [1]
131. ^ 'Anti-alcoholism' drug cleared for use in France"
132. ^ Lindsay, S.J.E.; Powell, Graham E., eds. (28 July 1998). The
    Handbook of Clinical Adult Psychology (2nd ed.). Routledge. p. 402.
    ISBN 978-0-415-07215-1.
133. ^ Gitlow, Stuart (1 October 2006). Substance Use Disorders: A
    Practical Guide (2nd ed.). USA: Lippincott Williams and Wilkins. pp.
    52 and 103–121. ISBN 978-0-7817-6998-3.
134. ^ Kushner MG, Abrams K, Borchardt C (March 2000). "The relationship
    between anxiety disorders and alcohol use disorders: a review of
    major perspectives and findings". Clin Psychol Rev 20 (2): 149–71.
    doi:10.1016/S0272-7358(99)00027-6. PMID 10721495.
135. ^ a b Krampe H, Stawicki S, Wagner T (January 2006). "Follow-up of
    180 alcoholic patients for up to 7 years after outpatient treatment:
    impact of alcohol deterrents on outcome". Alcoholism, clinical and
    experimental research 30 (1): 86–95.
    doi:10.1111/j.1530-0277.2006.00013.x. ISSN 0145-6008. PMID 16433735.
136. ^ Ogborne, AC. (June 2000). "Identifying and treating patients with
    alcohol-related problems". CMAJ 162 (12): 1705–8. PMC 1232509. PMID
    10870503.
137. ^ Soyka, M.; Rösner, S. (Nov 2008). "Opioid antagonists for
    pharmacological treatment of alcohol dependence – a critical
    review". Curr Drug Abuse Rev 1 (3): 280–91.
    doi:10.2174/1874473710801030280. PMID 19630726.
138. ^ US patent 4882335, John D. Sinclair, "Method for treating
    alcohol-drinking response", issued 1989-11-21
139. ^ Johnson BA (2004). "Role of the serotonergic system in the
    neurobiology of alcoholism: implications for treatment". CNS Drugs
    18 (15): 1105–18. doi:10.2165/00023210-200418150-00005. PMID
    15581381.
140. ^ Poulos CX, Zack M (November 2004). "Low-dose diazepam primes
    motivation for alcohol and alcohol-related semantic networks in
    problem drinkers". Behav Pharmacol 15 (7): 503–12.
    doi:10.1097/00008877-200411000-00006. ISSN 0955-8810. PMID 15472572.
141. ^ Catherine Le Galès-Camus (2004). Global Status Report on Alcohol
    2004 (PDF). World Health Organization. ISBN 92-4-156272-2.
142. ^ a b "Alcohol misuse: How much does it cost?" (PDF). Cabinet
    Office Strategy Unit. September 2003.
143. ^ Hasin D et al. (2007). "Prevalence, Correlates, Disability, and
    Comorbidity of DSM-IV Alcohol Abuse and Dependence in the United
    States". Archives of General Psychiatry 64 (7): 830–42.
    doi:10.1001/archpsyc.64.7.830. PMID 17606817.
144. ^ "alcoholism". Encyclopædia Britannica. 2010.
145. ^ Dick DM, Bierut LJ (April 2006). "The genetics of alcohol
    dependence". Current psychiatry reports 8 (2): 151–7.
    doi:10.1007/s11920-006-0015-1. ISSN 1523-3812. PMID 16539893.
146. ^ The National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism; U.S.
    Department of Health and Human Services, NIH News (18 January 2005).
    "2001–2002 Survey Finds That Many Recover From Alcoholism". National
    Institutes of Health.
147. ^ Vaillant GE (August 2003). "A 60-year follow-up of alcoholic
    men". Addiction. 98 (8): 1043–51.
    doi:10.1046/j.1360-0443.2003.00422.x. ISSN 0965-2140. PMID 12873238.
148. ^ Zuskin, E.; Jukić, V.; Lipozencić, J.; Matosić, A.;
    Mustajbegović, J.; Turcić, N.; Poplasen-Orlovac, D.; Bubas, M. et
    al. (Dec 2006). "[Alcoholism—how it affects health and working
    capacity]". Arh Hig Rada Toksikol 57 (4): 413–26. PMID 17265681.
    |displayauthors= suggested (help)
149. ^ O'Connor, Rory; Sheehy, Noel (29 January 2000). Understanding
    suicidal behaviour. Leicester: BPS Books. pp. 33–37. ISBN
    978-1-85433-290-5.
150. ^ Miller, NS; Mahler; Gold (1991). "Suicide risk associated with
    drug and alcohol dependence". Journal of addictive diseases 10 (3):
    49–61. doi:10.1300/J069v10n03_06. ISSN 1055-0887. PMID 1932152. More
    than one of |author2= and |last2= specified (help); More than one of
    |author3= and |last3= specified (help)
151. ^ Peters, Uwe Henrik (30 April 2007). Lexikon Psychiatrie,
    Psychotherapie, Medizinische Psychologie. Urban Fischer bei Elsev.
    ISBN 978-3-437-15061-6.
152. ^ Valverde, Mariana (1998). Diseases of the Will. Cambridge:
    Cambridge University Press. p. 48. ISBN 978-0-521-64469-3.
153. ^ Alcoholismus chronicus, eller Chronisk alkoholssjukdom:.
    Stockholm und Leipzig. 1852. Retrieved 19 February 2008.
154. ^ Potter, James V. (14 January 2008). Substances of Abuse 2. AFS
    Publishing Co. pp. 1–13. ISBN 978-1-930327-46-7.
155. ^ Julie Louise Gerberding; José Cordero, R. Louise Floyd (May
    2005). "Fetal Alcohol Syndrome: Guidelines for Referral and
    Diagnosis" (PDF). USA: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
156. ^ Streissguth, Ann Pytkowicz (1 September 1997). Fetal alcohol
    syndrome: a guide for families and communities. Baltimore, MD, USA:
    Paul H Brookes Pub. ISBN 978-1-55766-283-5.
157. ^ "Global Status Report on Alcohol 2004" (PDF). World Health
    Organization. Archived from the original on 30 December 2006.
    Retrieved 3 January 2007.
158. ^ "Economic cost of alcohol consumption". World Health Organization
    Global Alcohol Database. Retrieved 3 January 2007.
159. ^ "Q&A: The costs of alcohol". BBC. 19 September 2003.
160. ^ Bouchery, Ellen E.; Harwood, Henrick J.; Sacks, Jeffrey J.;
    Simon, Carol J.; Brewer, Robert D. (2011). "Economic Costs of
    Excessive Alcohol Consumption in the U.S., 2006". American Journal
    of Preventive Medicine 41 (5): 516–524.
    doi:10.1016/j.amepre.2011.06.045. PMID 22011424.
161. ^ "World/Global Alcohol/Drink Consumption". Finfacts Ireland. 2009.
162. ^ Stivers, Richard (May 2000). Hair of the dog: Irish drinking and
    its American stereotype. New York: Continuum. ISBN
    978-0-8264-1218-8.
163. ^ Chiao-Chicy, Chen; Shih-Jiun Yin (2008). "Alcohol abuse and
    related factors in Asia". International Review of Psychiatry 20 (5):
    425–433. doi:10.1080/09540260802344075. PMID 19012127.
164. ^ Wooksoo, K. (2009). Drinking Culture of Elderly Korean Immigrants
    in Canada: A Focus Group Study. Journal of Cross-Cultural
    Gerontology, 24(4), 339-353.
165. ^ Li, H. Z., & Rosenblood, L. (1994). Exploring factors influencing
    alcohol consumption patterns among Chinese and Caucasians. Journal
    of Studies on Alcohol, 55(4), 427. Retrieved from EBSCOhost.
166. ^ French, L. (2008). Psychoactive agents and Native American
    spirituality: Past and present. Contemporary Justice Review, 11(2),
    155-163.
167. ^ Olmsted CL, Kockler DR (October 2008). "Topiramate for alcohol
    dependence". Ann Pharmacother 42 (10): 1475–80.
    doi:10.1345/aph.1L157. ISSN 1060-0280. PMID 18698008.
168. ^ Kenna, GA.; Lomastro, TL.; Schiesl, A.; Leggio, L.; Swift, RM.
    (May 2009). "Review of topiramate: an antiepileptic for the
    treatment of alcohol dependence". Curr Drug Abuse Rev 2 (2): 135–42.
    doi:10.2174/1874473710902020135. PMID 19630744.

Further reading
---------------

-   Galanter, Marc (2005). Alcohol Problems in Adolescents and Young
    Adults: Epidemiology, Neurobiology, Prevention, Treatment. New York,
    NY: Kluwer Academic/Plenum. ISBN 0-306-48625-3. OCLC 133155628
    56653179 57724687 71290784.
-   Hedblom, Jack H. (2007). Last Call: Alcoholism and Recovery.
    Baltimore, MD: Johns Hopkins University Press. ISBN
    978-0-8018-8677-5. OCLC 237901552 77708730.
-   National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism. "Etiology and
    Natural History of Alcoholism".
-   The Online Resource for Addiction Recovery, Addiction Treatment &
    Addiction help. "Addiction Recovery".
-   O'Farrell, Timothy J. and William Fals-Stewart (2006). Behavioral
    Couples Therapy for Alcoholism and Drug Abuse. New York, NY:
    Guilford Press. ISBN 1-59385-324-6. OCLC 64336035.
-   Pence, Gregory, "Kant on Whether Alcoholism is a Disease," Ch. 2,
    The Elements of Bioethics, McGraw-Hill Books, 2007 ISBN
    0-07-313277-2.
-   Plant, Martin A. and Moira Plant (2006). Binge Britain: Alcohol and
    the National Response. Oxford, UK; New York, NY: Oxford University
    Press. ISBN 0-19-929940-4. OCLC 238809013 64554668.
-   Smart, Lesley (2007). Alcohol and Human Health. Oxford, UK: Oxford
    University Press. ISBN 978-0-19-923735-7. OCLC 163616466.
-   Sutton, Philip M. (2007). "Alcoholism and Drug Abuse". In Michael L.
    Coulter, Stephen M. Krason, Richard S. Myers, and Joseph A.
    Varacalli. Encyclopedia of Catholic Social Thought, Social Science,
    and Social Policy. Lanham, MD; Toronto, Canada; Plymouth, UK:
    Scarecrow Press. pp. 22–24. ISBN 978-0-8108-5906-7.
-   Thompson, Warren, MD, FACP. "Alcoholism." Emedicine.com, 6 June
    2007. Retrieved 2007-09-02.

External links
--------------

  ----------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------------
  Find more about Alcoholism at Wikipedia's sister projects
  []                                                          Definitions and translations from Wiktionary
  []                                                          Media from Commons
  []                                                          Quotations from Wikiquote
  []                                                          Travel information from Wikivoyage
  ----------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------------

-   DMOZ Alcohol abuse links and support groups at the Open Directory
    Project

-   v
-   t
-   e

Addiction

Drugs

-   Alcohol
-   Nicotine
-   Caffeine
-   Opioids

Food

-   Sugar

Behavioral

-   Communicating (especially talking)
-   Exercise
-   Gambling
-   Pornography
-   Sex
-   Shopping
-   Tanning
-   Work

Other addictions

-   Computer
-   Internet
-   Television
-   Video games

-   v
-   t
-   e

Alcohol and health

Ethanol  
 classifications

Dependency  
 and harm

-   Physical dependence
-   ISCD harm and damaging rating: 72/100
-   IARC Group 1 carcinogen
-   Neurotoxin

Pathophysiology

-   Anxiolytic
-   Depressant
-   Euphoriant
-   Hypnotic/sedative

Pharmacology

-   Glutamatergic: NMDA antagonist  

Serotonergic: 5-HT3 agonist responsible for GABAergic (GABAA receptor
PAM), glycinergic, and cholinergic (mAChR agonist) effects  

Research: Adenosinergic: ENT inhibitor. Dopaminergic: Reversible MAO-B
inhibitor. Norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor. Opioid

Specific  
 interactions

Note: see Template:Psychoactive substance use for diagnoses. Cancer
(breast cancer) · Aging · Brain · Sleep · Tolerance · Weight · Alcohol
induced mood disorders

Substance  
 abuse  
 prevention

Sobriety

-   Alcohol detoxification
-   Alcohol rehabilitation
-   Alcoholics Anonymous

Alcohol  
 limitation

-   0-0-1-3
-   Alcohol education
-   Alcohol server training
-   Recommended maximum intake of alcoholic beverages
-   Group Against Liquor Advertising (GALA)

Addiction medicine

Anti-addictive entheogens: Ibogaine, Salvia divinorum

Religion and alcohol

-   Christian views on alcohol
    -   alcohol in the Bible

-   Islam and alcohol

Social issues

-   Alcohol advertising/alcohol advertising on college campuses
-   Alcohol-free beverage definition controversy
-   Sex
-   High-functioning alcoholic (HFA)
-   Family systems
-   College student alcoholism
-   Drunkorexia
-   rum-running (black market)
-   Blackout (alcohol-related amnesia)
-   American Indian alcoholism
-   Binge drinking
    -   0.08 BAC

-   Drinking games/pregaming
-   Domestic violence
-   Driving under the influence
-   French paradox
-   Impure alcohol (methanol outbreaks, moonshine contamination)
-   Alcohol self-medication
-   Sin tax/Pigovian tax

General

-   Alternative alcohol use
-   Short-term effects of alcohol
-   Long-term effects of alcohol

-   v
-   t
-   e

Psychoactive substance-related disorder (F10–F19, 291–292; 303–305)

General

SID (Substance intoxication/Drug overdose, Withdrawal, Substance-induced
psychosis) · SUD (Substance abuse, Physical dependence/Substance
dependence)

Alcohol

SID

Diseases

Neurological  
 disorders

Alcoholic hallucinosis · Alcohol withdrawal · Fetal alcohol spectrum
disorder (FASD) · Fetal alcohol syndrome (FAS) · Korsakoff's syndrome ·
Wernicke–Korsakoff syndrome

Digestive  
 system

-   Alcohol flush reaction
-   Alcoholic hepatitis
-   Alcoholic liver disease

Nervous  
 system

-   Alcohol dementia
-   Alcoholic hallucinosis
-   Hangover

Cardiovascular  
 system

-   Alcoholic cardiomyopathy

SUD

Alcoholism (Alcohol dependence syndrome) · Alcohol abuse

Opioids

SID (Opioid overdose) · SUD (Opioid dependence)

Cannabis

SID (Short-term effects of cannabis, Cannabis withdrawal) · SUD
(Cannabis dependence)

Sedative/  
 hypnotic

benzodiazepine: SID (Benzodiazepine overdose, Benzodiazepine withdrawal)
· SUD (Benzodiazepine drug misuse, Benzodiazepine dependence)

barbiturate: SID (Barbiturate overdose) · SUD (Barbiturate dependence)

Cocaine

SID (Cocaine intoxication) · SUD (Cocaine dependence)

Stimulants

SID (Stimulant psychosis) · SUD (Amphetamine dependence) · Health
effects of caffeine (Caffeine-induced sleep disorder)

Hallucinogen

SID (Hallucinogen persisting perception disorder)

Tobacco

SID (Nicotine poisoning, Nicotine withdrawal)

Volatile  
 solvent

Inhalant abuse: Toluene toxicity

Multiple

Poly drug use

M: PSO/PSI

mepr

dsrd (o, p, m, p, a, d, s), sysi/epon, spvo

proc (eval/thrp), drug (N5A/5B/5C/6A/6B/6D)

Retrieved from
"http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Alcoholism&oldid=556646843"

Categories:

-   Alcohol abuse
-   Drinking culture
-   Drug addiction
-   Psychiatric diagnosis
-   Substance dependence

Hidden categories:

-   Pages with citations having wikilinks embedded in URL titles
-   Pages using citations with accessdate and no URL
-   Pages using citations with format and no URL
-   Pages with citations having redundant parameters
-   Pages using citations with old-style implicit et al.
-   Pages with citations using unsupported parameters
-   Use dmy dates from July 2012
-   Wikipedia indefinitely semi-protected pages
-   Good articles
-   Wikipedia indefinitely move-protected pages
-   All articles with unsourced statements
-   Articles with unsourced statements from September 2012

Navigation menu
---------------

Personal tools

-   Create account
-   Log in

Namespaces

-   Article
-   Talk

Variants

Views

-   Read
-   View source
-   View history

Actions

Search

[Search]

Navigation

-   Main page
-   Contents
-   Featured content
-   Current events
-   Random article
-   Donate to Wikipedia

Interaction

-   Help
-   About Wikipedia
-   Community portal
-   Recent changes
-   Contact Wikipedia

Toolbox

-   What links here
-   Related changes
-   Upload file
-   Special pages
-   Permanent link
-   Page information
-   Cite this page

Print/export

-   Create a book
-   Download as PDF
-   Printable version

Languages

-   العربية
-   Asturianu
-   Azərbaycanca
-   Bân-lâm-gú
-   Беларуская
-   Беларуская (тарашкевіца)‎
-   Български
-   Bosanski
-   Català
-   Česky
-   Cymraeg
-   Dansk
-   Deutsch
-   Eesti
-   Ελληνικά
-   Español
-   Esperanto
-   Euskara
-   فارسی
-   Fiji Hindi
-   Français
-   Galego
-   한국어
-   Hrvatski
-   Bahasa Indonesia
-   Ирон
-   Íslenska
-   Italiano
-   עברית
-   Basa Jawa
-   ಕನ್ನಡ
-   ქართული
-   Қазақша
-   Kirundi
-   Kiswahili
-   Кыргызча
-   Latina
-   Latviešu
-   Lietuvių
-   Magyar
-   Македонски
-   മലയാളം
-   Malti
-   मराठी
-   Bahasa Melayu
-   Nederlands
-   नेपाल भाषा
-   日本語
-   Norsk bokmål
-   Norsk nynorsk
-   Occitan
-   Polski
-   Português
-   Română
-   Русский
-   Scots
-   Sicilianu
-   Simple English
-   Slovenčina
-   Slovenščina
-   Српски / srpski
-   Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски
-   Suomi
-   Svenska
-   Tagalog
-   தமிழ்
-   తెలుగు
-   Тоҷикӣ
-   Türkçe
-   Українська
-   Tiếng Việt
-   ייִדיש
-   粵語
-   中文
-   Edit links

-   This page was last modified on 24 May 2013 at 22:06.  
-   Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike
    License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree
    to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy.   
     Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation,
    Inc., a non-profit organization.

-   Privacy policy
-   About Wikipedia
-   Disclaimers
-   Contact Wikipedia
-   Mobile view

-   [Wikimedia Foundation]
-   [Powered by MediaWiki]

